# Intro to PHP

---

You might have studied PHP already, in which case this first week will be a simple refresher !

If you completed your path in JavaScript, worry not ! You'll see that PHP is very similar in many aspects.

---

### What is PHP ?

PHP (PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is a popular open-source scripting language _particularly suited for web development_. It's first release was in 1995, when internet was in it's beggining for the broad public.

PHP is a **server-side** language ! Thats means : it doesn't run in your browser as JavaScript does.

It runs in the server, that compiles its result to html that is then sent to the browser.

Think of this : "Hypertext Preprocessor". So... HTML is a Hypertext language. PHP process in the server some markup linked to some code, in order to deliver a final HTML result.

It's the equivalent of Node and EJS for example that you might have seen.

We will get more specific very soon.

---

Because PHP is a server side language, you'll need a software in your server that executes PHP and is able to respond to request made to the server.

Two of the most common server software that execute PHP are Apache and NGINX.

They are a web server software that is responsible for accepting HTTP requests from visitors and sending them back the requested information in the form of web pages.

---

So... in order to execute PHP in your computer, you will need to install Apache (or NGINX). 

Here, we will present 5 possibilities to set up your environment.


### 1.1 XAMPP

My advise is to install a software called [XAMPP](https://www.apachefriends.org/fr/index.html).

XAMPP works as a local server that execute PHP with Apache and also hosts a MariaDB (SQL database) among other services.

It's very easy to use. Just launch the server and you can create PHP files in its root folder and serve it to your browser.

Go get to know how you can make it work ;)

**Assignment :**

- Install XAMPP
- In the root folder of the local server (htdocs), delete everything and create an `index.php` file and inside it, just write `Hello World`
- Now, get to see the page in your browser that should display the text "Hello World"


### 1.2 Laragon

For the Windows users only, it's like a Xampp stack with steroïds.

This nice tool allow you to install many environments (WordPress, Symfony, Laravel...) with just some clicks : [Laragon](https://laragon.org/)

### 1.3 Homebrew

Only for Mac or Linux users, Hombrew is a package manager for installing packages: https://brew.sh/

By typing `brew install ...`, you can install any tool you need. 

### 1.4 LAMP

This stack is like XAMPP but you have to instal Apache, PHP, MySQL (or MariaDB) & a database manager individually. 

If you want a "LAMP" stack, you can follow these instructions one by one : [LAMP](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-lamp-stack-on-ubuntu)


### 1.5 Docker 🐋

> ⚠️ before to choose this possibility, you should have already followed a (short) training about Docker

You need a container Docker containing Apache or Nginx, PHP & MySQL.

We have an environment ready for you in this [Github template](https://github.com/NicolasJamar/docker-env-php-wordpress). You can fork it and follow the instructions.

---

Now you are up to run ! Let's tackle de basics of PHP :)

Kind reminder : This "crash course" on PHP implies you already have a good understanding of programming language (such as JavaScript). That's why we won't have so many explanation for the basic concepts.
